= slogger

Slogger is a Ruby library to help work with standard Ruby Syslog library.

== Install

Slogger is hosted on RubyGems (https://rubygems.org/gems/slogger), so to install it is really easy.
  
  $ gem install slogger

== Features

=== Slogger::Logger

A more friendly wrapper on Ruby's Syslog.
    
Sample: simple message log
    
  require "slogger"
  
  # So in this sample:
  #
  # "sample_name": application name
  # :info        : severity level
  # :local0      : facility
  
  slogger = Slogger::Logger.new "sample_app", :info, :local0 
  slogger.info "A good info"
  slogger.debug "A deep info (oops!)"  # it'll not be logged
  
  slogger.severity = :debug
  slogger.debug "A deep info (yay!)"   # now it'll be logged
  
  # and after, look at the syslog file of your SO  ;)

Sample: message log preceded by spent time

  require "slogger"
  
  slogger = Slogger::Logger.new "sample_app", :debug, :local0 
  slogger.info "A really good info preceded by spent time" do
    # do something
  end

  # and after, look at the syslog file of your SO  ;)

=== Slogger::Rack::RequestLogger

A Rack middleware to log incoming requests.

Sample:

  require "slogger"
  
  configure do
    slogger = Slogger::Logger.new "sample_app", :debug, :local0
    use Slogger::Rack::RequestLogger, slogger
  end

  # and after, look at the syslog file of your SO  ;)
    
== Future

I don't know. I think in adding more stuff sometime in the future. Let's see.

For now is it.

== Quick view on Syslog RFC 5424

If you want to get a look at RFC 5424, which I really recommend, you can go to:

http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424

According to that:

  # Message Severities
  #
  # - Emergency: system is unusable
  # - Alert: action must be taken immediately
  # - Critical: critical conditions
  # - Error: error conditions
  # - Warning: warning conditions
  # - Notice: normal but significant condition
  # - Informational: informational messages
  # - Debug: debug-level messages

And...

  # Message Facilities
  #
  # - kernel messages
  # - user-level messages
  # - mail system
  # - system daemons
  # - security/authorization messages
  # - messages generated internally by syslogd
  # - line printer subsystem
  # - network news subsystem
  # - UUCP subsystem
  # - clock daemon
  # - security/authorization messages
  # - FTP daemon
  # - NTP subsystem
  # - log audit
  # - log alert
  # - clock daemon (note 2)
  # - local use 0  (local0)
  # - local use 1  (local1)
  # - local use 2  (local2)
  # - local use 3  (local3)
  # - local use 4  (local4)
  # - local use 5  (local5)
  # - local use 6  (local6)
  # - local use 7  (local7)

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Leandro Silva (CodeZone).
